---
tags: derse
---

# Speakers Council Meeting 16.12.2024

## Attendees:
- Bernadette Fritzsch
- Frank Löffler
- Jan Linxweiler
- Stephan Janosch
- Claire Wyatt
- Dominic Kempf
- Florian Goth
- Philipp Schäfer
- Jan Dietrich

## Agenda:

* Reports from the task forces
* Community engagement and role of task forces
* Other
    * Events
    * DFG commission on research software infrarstructure

## Reports from the task forces
* association infrastructure | Philipp Matthias Schäfer
    * Who should have a user account on the server (in addition to the AG members)? Contact us.
    * Internal Documentation (Board+AG have access atm): https://github.com/DE-RSE/infrastructure-private
    * Improve documentation
    * Could speaker council members have access as well?
    
* international council | Frank Löffler
    * New ReSA task force: FAIR for Research Software (FAIR4RS) Principles 2-year review: Do you think the FAIR principles for Research Software (https://doi.org/10.15497/RDA00068) are working? 2+ years after publishing, with over 500 people involved, we’re keen to understand if the FAIR principles have been useful & usable. If not, we’re asking the community what needs changing to make them work.
        * Survey: https://forms.gle/sRhRQD4gWBQWzcGS7
	* rscan: new potential member from Canada
	* Frank: will likely present de-RSE in April
	* Meetings: every 2 months
	
* de-RSE24 | Florian Goth 
  - successfully finalized.
  - videos online https://www.youtube.com/@de-RSE-conferences/videos
  - **this working group is now closed**
* position paper RSE groups | Dominic Kempf
    * [active (again)](https://github.com/DE-RSE/2023_paper-RSE-groups)
    * hopefully(!) "done" by the time of deRSE25

* NFDI | Florian Thiery
    * no update
    
* de-RSE25 | Stephan Janosch
    * deRSE25
        * massive programme
        * early bird ends Jan 10th
        * contributions to bring SE and RSE community together
        * 30% more submissions than last year
        * would be good for future conferences to work with earlier deadlines and to know in advance whether there will be an unConference available
        * profile also might need more sharpening
            * community networking
            * result presentation 
            * workshop vs talks
        * idea to use conference to collect some feedback on what people want from upcoming conferences
            * what for? what is the aim? 
            * secondary way for non present people

* RSE Software Development Guidelines (with GI)| Bernhard Rumpe
    * guidelines are finished and now have to be brought into the community and to the stakeholders
    * GI will decide in January on the publication of the guidelines
   
* Categories for Research Software (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
    * paper submitted and reviewer comments received
    * paper is either resubmitted or will be submitted soon
   
* online community (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
    * ![](https://de-rse.org/reports-matrix/matrixcounter.svg)
    * working group succesfully established Matrix as communication platform
    * **this working group is now closed**

* event coordination (with GI)| Stephan Janosch
    * FG-RSE 
        * last meeting in Cologne
        * next meeting could be @ PIK in September next to [INFORMATIK 2025](https://informatik2025.gi.de) which happens in Potsdam at the same time (16.9.-19.9)
    * unConference 2025
        * unclear whether there will be one in 2025
        * possibility to organize it in Göttingen
    * proposal for future scheme:
        * uneven years
            * SE + RSE combined
            * separate unConference
        * even years
            * "longer" RSE conference incl workshops 
    * community call
        * next call Jan 8th - 4pm
        * https://pad.okfn.de/p/Open_Science_AG_Public_Call_113
        
* RSE Advocacy Strategy (with GI)| Bernadette Fritzsch
    * Survey about existing activities is done, data should now be analyzed in order to identify gaps
    * short overview will be presented with call for further collaborators
   
* RSE State of the Nation Report (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
    * no update

* RSE Research (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
    * no update
   
* Teaching RSE | Florian Goth
  * https://f1000research.com/articles/13-1429/v1
  * Dagstuhl seminar proceedings submitted
  * deRSE25 workshop submitted
    
## Community engagement and role of task forces

* how to be more agile?
* how to engage the community more?
* open a community engagement working group?
* need to think about how to feed back the discussions here to the community (e.g. via community talks?, in person events)
* Idea: add a de-RSE signature to mails with links to the resources/protocols
* (quarterly ?) summaries of board meeting and speaker council 
* offer conference T-Shirts via giveaways to join Matrix
* outreach
  * short block at conference to distribute speaker council "news"
  * poster 

* community metrics

    | Datum     | email list |wiss-softw|RSE_de follower|map entries|Mastodon| matrix community |
    |--:|--:|--:|--:|--:|--:|--:|
    | 15.03.2024|     757 |          | 892           |      54| 169 |   ~0 |
    | 16.12.2024|     820 |          | 848           |      54| 188 | ~300 |

* claire:
    * WG would be an idea
    * survey 
    * in person event to engage people - catch people while they are active together
    * wider information to the mailing list? 
    * left over t-shirt for matrix community joiners" 
    
* overlap with KTS funded outreach?
    * award
    * masters programme


## Other

* Overview on https://de-rse.org/de/working_groups.html needs some updates
    * Jan Dietrich will do a clean up
    * separate PRs on working groups with more details requested
* intl survey happening? 
    * there currently seems to be no activity
    * Stephan Janosch will ask whether there is something planned

* DFG-Kommission zu Forschungssoftwareinfrastrukturen
    * request to propose 2 RSEs to be potentially selected for the comission
    * topic will be taken up in the next board meeting

## Next Meeting

  - **2025-03-17 13:00**


<br />
<br />
<br />

..................................

Jan Philipp Dietrich

Schriftführer
