---
tags: derse
---

# Speakers Council Meeting 17.06.2024

## Attendees:

- Jan Linxweiler
- Philipp Schäfer
- Jan Dietrich
- Frank Löffler
- Stephan Janosch
- Bernhard Rumpe
- Florian Thiery
- Claire Wyatt
- Florian Goth
- Willi Hasselbring
- Bernadette Fritzsch
- Florian Thiery

## Agenda:

* Presentation of the Speaker Council structure (Stephan Janosch)
* Infrastructure proposal by the infrastructure task force for the Speaker Council (Philipp Matthias Schäfer)
* Reports from the task forces (all speakers)

Meeting at https://meet.gwdg.de/b/ste-hku-nvu


## Minutes

* Presentation of the Speaker Council structure (Stephan Janosch)
    * Talk: Modular, together, forward
        * Link: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.26048713
    * Discussion:
        * comment from Willi H.
            * prefers the term: task force instead of working group -> **decision**: use the term **task force** from now on
    
* Infrastructure proposal by the infrastructure task force for the Speaker Council (Philipp Matthias Schäfer)
  * AG Vereinsinfrasturktur (Philipp Schäfer)
     * https://github.com/DE-RSE/infrastructure/blob/345a1d23520e454bd21c1f98d35cc7cbf594822c/infrastruktur-plan.md
     * general suggestion for the deRSE infrarstructure
  * Questions:
      * SJ: Did you look at infrastructure with functional aspects? (e.g. task management, product dissemination, feedback collection)
          * move issues and topics with their people caring along time
      * SJ: Does End user documentation Django Academic Community Portal exist? 
      * Budget is based on the member fees
  * Decisions:
      * DNS and mailing lists stay with JP Berlin
      * We stick with the website on GitHub
      * We selfhost a nextcloud instance for data repositories
      * The deRSE board will further discuss together with the infrastrusture task force some additional points
          * A working meeting will be scheduled (the board will make suggestions dates)
          * Topic to be decided: Get a VM to run cloudtron what makes hosting services easier for 15€/month?
          * Host cryptpad instance? 
          * Use of open slides?

* Reports from the task forces (all speakers)
  * association infrastructure | Philipp Matthias Schäfer
      * see above
  * international council | Frank Loeffler
      * link: https://researchsoftware.org/council.html
      * coordinates between national RSE councils
      * [Research Software Alliance (RESA)](https://www.researchsoft.org) manages events
      * Topics: colaboration, support each other, shared events
          * Questions/Comments:
              * Willi: deRSE is not an official member of RESA. Why? Reason: There is a member fee which made it so far unattractive to join.
  * position paper RSE groups | Dominic Kempf
      * Dominic is absent, Frank reported instead
      * going on for about a year
      * 80% done
      * should be done this year
      * there will be another invite for open review after summer
      * [https://github.com/DE-RSE/2023_paper-RSE-groups](https://github.com/DE-RSE/2023_paper-RSE-groups)
  * NFDI | Florian Thiery
      * no meeting has happened yet but should happen soon
      * [channel in Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#deRSE-AK-NFDI:matrix.org)
      * next activities will be planned via matrix channel
  * de-RSE24 | Florian Goth 
      * conference more than 200 participants in Würzburg
      * 1st time post proceedings are in works
      * video recording of recorded talks are in the making
  * de-RSE25 | Stephan Janosch
      * orga team has been assembled
      * Chair: René Caspart 
      * NFDI involved people meetup 
      * Organisation process fully started
      * Chairs of deRSE25 and SE25 are in close contact
  * RSE Software Development Guidelines (with GI)| Bernhard Rumpe
      * Version 0.9.1 has been distributed and feedback round is ongoing
      * Still a lot of discussion
      * Expected Form of publication: as de-RSE and GI "Leitlinien"
      * When the "Leitlinien are stable" the board will be consulted
  * Categories for Research Software (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
      * Taskforce met in Brauschweig
      * Paper preprint has been published
      * Willi H. is giving presentations based on the results
          * Dagstuhl 
          * UK
      * Next meeting of the task force will be in Cologne next to the GI Fachgruppentreffen
  * online community (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
      * Matrix went live in march with the conference
      * no major problems
      * people on the old chat have been asked to move over to Matrix
      * 194 signups
      * e.g. guidelines have been discussed 
      * people get welcome messages with explanations and are asked to introduce themselves
          * SJ: Pinned the message that the chat system has been moved
          * JD: Will the Rocket.chat be shut down?
              * no need as there is no activity anymore and it is useful to keep the history
  * event coordination (with GI)| Stephan Janosch
      * Focus on GI and de-RSE events
      * big one with RESA shold be discussed
      * no unconferece planned for this year
          * Coments / Questions
              * Florian G.: Everthing RSE related will happen at deRSE25?
                  * SJ: We could think about an additional unconference event later this year
  * RSE Advocacy Strategy (with GI)| Bernadette Fritzsch 
      * Discussion about how to get an overview of the situation
          * 1st step is to get a complete picture, where members have a link to organisations
              * survey is currently set up to collect this information
  * RSE State of the Nation Report (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
      * Next steps will be scheduled
  * RSE Research (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
      * Preparation of a DFG Priority Program
          * Lars Grunske will be speaker
          * Bernhard und Anna-Lena are also involed
          * Infrastructure Program with no deadline for the proposal
          * For applications you have to have a permanent position
  * Teaching RSE | Florian Goth
    * suggestion of a new task force with Florian Goth as speaker -> decision will be taken in next deRSE board meeting.
    * BR: suggestion to make a joint deRSE-GI-task force out of it -> will be discussed with Anna-Lena as head of the GI Fachgruppe
    * https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project
    * our pad with connection details: https://pad.gwdg.de/s/pVBQ3Sh7Z#
    * Our ML: https://lists.uni-wuerzburg.de/mailman/listinfo/teachingrse
      * https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies
      * https://de-rse.org/learn-and-teach/
      * https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/RSE-Masters
      * https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education
      * https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/call_to_action
      * taskforce meeting every Monday at 10 AM


# Next Meeting

  - **2024-09-16 13:00**


<br />
<br />
<br />

..................................

Jan Philipp Dietrich

Schriftführer
