---
tags: derse
---

# Speakers Council Meeting 16.09.2024

## Attendees:

- Jan Philipp Dietrich
- Florian Goth
- Stephan Janosch
- Frank Löffler
- Claire Wyatt
- Dominic Kempf
- Bernhard Rumpe
- Bernadette Fritzsch

## Agenda:

* Reports from the task forces (all speakers)

Meeting at https://meet.gwdg.de/b/ste-hku-nvu


## Minutes


### Reports from the task forces (all speakers)

* association infrastructure | Philipp Matthias Schäfer
    - deRSE now has a VM
        - cloudron installed (managed Linux-OS)
        - apps: nextcloud + onlyoffice
        - FL (not really in that AK): installation done, group management still missing
* international council | Frank Löffler
    - ReSA will coordinate meetings ect.: administrative tasks
    - plan: meetings ~4 times/y
* position paper RSE groups | Dominic Kempf
    - no news to share
* NFDI | Florian Thiery
    - no updates
* de-RSE24 | Florian Goth 
    - Videos! Need to be cut and published
    - deRSE will create a youtube channel so that the videos can be uploaded there
* de-RSE25 | Stephan Janosch
    - organisaton group established, meetings happening
    - call for contribution coming soon
    - program should be nicely aligned with SE conference
    - common keynote on wednesday
* RSE Software Development Guidelines (with GI)| Bernhard Rumpe
    - essentially done: decision about "xth de-RSE position paper" later this week
    - probably being published in October
* Categories for Research Software (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
    - there will be a workshop attached to the upcoming Fachgruppentreffen in October
* online community (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
    - 215 members
    - New rooms are being requested
    - Question for Frank - Are there any more stats we can get from Matrix?
        - atm (with old data missing in the plot, not the repo):
          ![](https://de-rse.org/reports-matrix/matrixcounter.svg)
* event coordination (with GI)| Stephan Janosch
    - intl day of research software - oct 10th
        - unclear whether there will be a german event on this day
    - Fachgruppentreffen 15-16.10. https://fg-rse.gi.de/veranstaltung/2-treffen-arbeitskreis-kategorien-von-forschungssoftware
    - looking for suggestions for formats/topics at deRSE25 and upcoming events
* RSE Advocacy Strategy (with GI)| Bernadette Fritzsch
    - survey is published via mailing lists (Fachgruppe & deRSE)
    - waiting for results
* RSE State of the Nation Report (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
    - Claire is currently drafting a document and will ask for further inputs at a later stage
* RSE Research (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring
    - next steps are clear but currently no free capaticities to make immediate progress
* Teaching RSE | Florian Goth
    - 1st paper essentially done: decision about "2nd de-RSE position paper" later this week
    - https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11457v3
    - Current projects: https://de-rse.org/learn-and-teach/
    - Future Projects: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education
    - seperate Call for Collaboration.
    
### TODOs

- board: create de-RSE youtube account and give deRSE24-team access for videos.

# Next Meeting

  - **2024-12-16 13:00**

<br />
<br />
<br />

..................................

Jan Philipp Dietrich

Schriftführer
