---
tags: derse
---

# Speakers Council Meeting 17.03.2025

## Attendees:

- Jan Dietrich
- Jan Linxweiler
- Lukas Netz
- Dominic Kempf
- Stephan Janosch
- Bernadette Fritzsch
- Philipp Schäfer
- Claire Wyatt
- Frank Löffler

## Agenda:

* Reports from the working groups
* open questions / tasks from last meeting
* Other

## Reports from the working groups
* association infrastructure | Philipp Matthias Schäfer
    * nothing to report
    * from next time another Philipp will represent the group
   
* international council | Frank Löffler
    * next meeting: Apr 10th
        * Frank likely will present de-RSE there

* position paper RSE groups | Dominic Kempf
    * Big push before deRSE25
    * Frank presented at the conference
    * Currently in deRSE community review until March 23rd
    * Board decision after the review period
    * Open Question: Where to publish

* NFDI | Florian Thiery (not present)
    * Matrix: https://matrix.to/#/#deRSE-AK-NFDI:matrix.org
    * WG RSE in section INFRA, next meeting 31 Mar 2025, 13.00h (every last monday)
    * RSE@NFDI Meet-Up at deRSE25
        * question on how the deRSE can help to make the work of RSEs more visbile also inside the NFDI
    * CoRDI 2025 in Aachen: 
        * a) Submission on the role of RSE in the RDM process 
        * b) "satellite event" the day before or after the conference as "Barcamp" for RSE in NFDI (Bernd Flemisch has asked the orga team)
    
* de-RSE25 | Stephan Janosch
    * Post-Proceedings: https://events.hifis.net/event/2050/page/567-conference-proceedings 
    * final survey currently in preparation
    * blog post will be written by Inga and Stephan and published on de-RSE blog
    * some post logistics still to be done

* RSE Software Development Guidelines (with GI)| Bernhard Rumpe (not present)
    * should group continue?
    * guidelines have been picked by GI, RESA
    * german only right now
    * would be useful to monitor the pick-up of the guidelines (feedback loop)
    * feedback is often that the document is a bit long. A break down via an interactive website could be useful.
   
* Categories for Research Software (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring (not present)
    * paper seems to be accepted by now

* event coordination (with GI)| Stephan Janosch
    * International Research Software Conference efforts by RESA
        * will probably be focussed more on high level decision makers (e.g. funder)
        * different focus than an international research software engineering conference
        * they are currently looking to colocate with an existing conference for one day for 2025/2026
    * Next focus meeting tomorrow 
    * 2026
        * conference offer: Uni Stuttgart
        * unconference possibility: Göttingen
    * 2027
        * European/International RSE conference?
        * NFDIxCS consortium suggested that they could host such an event in Germany

* RSE Advocacy Strategy (with GI)| Bernadette Fritzsch
    * nothing to report   

* RSE State of the Nation Report (with GI)| Claire Wyatt
    * Idea to release the report next year because it's the 10 yr anniversary so working on it this year. 
    * Stephan Janosch: survey planned for 2025
 
* RSE Research (with GI)| Willi Hasselbring (not present)
    * nothing to report   

* Teaching RSE | Florian Goth
    * 1st paper published at F1000: https://f1000research.com/articles/13-1429/v1
    * 2nd paper WIP: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education
    * side project: The end of RSEng: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/end_of_RSEng 

* AI4RSE (with GI) | Lukas Netz
    * Short intro of the new Task-Force
    * WIP: Survey 
    * Planned: Workshop 
    * Claire: suggestion to also organise Seminars
    * Stephan: Does this also link to https://everse.software ?
        * https://everse.software/network/newsletter/Newsletter-2024-10.pdf
    * https://www.allianzschwerpunkt-digitalitaet.de/digitale-werkzeuge-und-ihre-entwicklung-einschlieslich-kunstlicher-intelligenz-und-maschinelles-lernen/

## open questions / tasks from last meeting

* Community engagement working group
    * Communications / workflows, publicising activities/progress with the community, 
        * Newsletter
        * SoMe strategy - twitter, bluesky?
    * "community engagement" probably misleading, perhaps better called "communication strategy"
    * topic will be discussed again in the next speakers council, now with the more narrowed down focus on communication



## Other
* Request: Could we have the agenda out a week beforehand so we can add our notes? And could we have rolling meeting notes so we can see previous status/notes?
    * Jan Dietrich will take care of it
* Stephan: deRSE26 working group -> will be taken up next time

## Next Meeting

**16.06. 1pm**

<br />
<br />
<br />

..................................

Jan Philipp Dietrich

Schriftführer
