---
tags: derse
---

#  Speakers Council Meeting 2025-09-22

## Attendees
- Frank Löffler
- Willi Hasselbring
- Stephan Janosch
- Claire Wyatt
- Florian Goth

### cannot Attend
* Florian Thiery
* Lukas Netz
  
## Agenda

## Reports from working groups

### association infrastructure | Philipp ?
* from board meeting, migration of 2 google calendars into nextcloud (de-RSE, de-RSE board) 
* forschungssoftware.info
    * SJ has idea -> obsidian render of RSE Zettelkasten
    
### communication strategy | Claire Wyatt
Draft ideas: https://iffmd.fz-juelich.de/BRfhH7FvSmWsKlCCo_yfMQ#

### international council | Frank Loeffler
- welcome [RSE Chile](https://rse-chile.github.io/)
- not repeating the [ReSA newsletter](https://www.researchsoft.org/news/) here
- NL plans on [national RS day 2025](https://nl-rse.org/pages/nrsd-2025) on Nov 25th
- RSSE Africa in quiet period (previously active people occupied)
- Oct 9th will be this year's RSE day
    - difficult for US-RSE, as this is 1 day after their conference
        - will ask people to post about the then past conference on that day
    - idea of flyer with links to each association for RSE-day
        - previous [slides](https://www.canva.com/design/DAGLQmcTiRk/8-sXGcPueIp79oYHiplJcg/view?utm_content=DAGLQmcTiRk&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link&utm_source=editor) by Roland
    - if anything is planned, please share with council
- questions about sustainability of associations; mentioned threats:
    - how to get community going and energised
    - US: impact of federal funding and DEI statements
    - newsletters/social media etc. seen as high effort
    - succession planning: often hinging on a few key figures
- RS conference 2026 co-located with RSECon26

### position paper RSE groups | Dominic Kempf
- maybe about to be submitted this week

### NFDI | Florian Thiery
* CoRDI in Aachen
* RSE is seen as important but does not really have a good Lobby
* how could deRSE e.V. more active within NFDI (sections, task forces...)

### de-RSE26
- CfC Open: https://events.hifis.net/event/2945/abstracts/
    - CFC spread: https://github.com/DE-RSE/deRSE26/issues/13
    - 
- Panel Discussions? Fish-Bowl sessions?

### de-RSE25 | Stephan Janosch
- Post-Proceedings are WIP. Flo still aims for a christmas present...

### RSE Software Development Guidelines (with GI) | Bernhard Rumpe
- published
- task force dormant

### Categories for Research Software (with GI) | Willi Hasselbring
- discussion how to proceed
- connection to RSE curriculum
- 1st milestone: published first categories

### event coordination (with GI) | Stephan Janosch
* de-RSE Zukunftswerkstatt 2026
    * Meeting this Friday with locals from Göttingen
* 2027
    * at toDo list
    
### RSE Advocacy Strategy (with GI) | Bernadette Fritzsch

### RSE State of the Nation Report (with GI) | Claire Wyatt
- no news

### RSE Research (with GI) | Willi Hasselbring
- RESA meta science forum MARS
    - next Meeting Oct 7th
    - https://www.researchsoft.org/forums/mars-forum/
    
### RSE Teaching (with GI) | Florian Goth
- RSE-Master's curriculum: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/RSE-Masters
- Data Science 2 RSE comparison: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/ds2rse/blob/build/index.pdf
- Research Software Engineering 4 natural sciences: https://fb-swt.gi.de/fileadmin/FB/SWT/Softwaretechnik-Trends/Verzeichnis/Band_45_Heft_3/RSE4NatSci.pdf
- competencies now final and revised: https://f1000research.com/articles/13-1429/v2

### AI4RSE (with GI) | Lukas Netz

## Other topics

## next meeting: 2025-12-15